---
layout: post
title: CI/CD with Travis using Docker
---

AWS EC2 deployment with Travis and Docker images was quite overwhelming at first. Hopefully this will help to guide through the steps for AWS EC2 deployment with Travis. Lets start with high level workflow of CI/CD using Travis.

##High level workflow:

1. Github: Push your changes into master.  
2. Travis run the tests and build the docker image.
3. Travis then push the docker image to Amazon ECR (Docker container registry in which a user can store, manage, and deploy Docker images).
4. Travis zip the project or in my case zip the scripts and then upload it to AWS S3.  
Note: Scripts to pull image from ECR and run the docker image.
5. Travis then tells AWS Code Deploy to deploy to your AWS EC2 Instance.  


## Setting up CI/CD

To get started, I would recommend to go through the following blog that explains the steps to deploy a project using Travis, IAM, EC2, S3 and CodeDeploy. This blog helps to understand how different permissions are used for AWS services, and how to write a simple travis.yml file to use different services:  
[Guide for AWS EC2 deployment using Travis](https://medium.com/@itsdavidthai/comprehensive-aws-ec2-deployment-with-travisci-guide-7cafa9c754fc).  

**Note**: Although this blog is enough to get your project deployed, it doesn't discuss about using the docker image. I would recommend to follow this blog to configure all the AWS services and build a simple travis.yml file and then move further to use docker.

###Build docker images with Travis for AWS

1. Add a Dockerfile in the project directory. In Hello-World exercise (using standard library HttpServer class), the Dockerfile would run the .jar file. A basic Dockerfile to do so would look like:  

	```
FROM openjdk:8
COPY . /hello-world
WORKDIR /hello-world
RUN ./gradlew jar		//Build the .jar file
EXPOSE 8000  
CMD ["java", "-jar", "build/libs/helloWorld-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar"] 
```  
Note: Build the docker image and run it in the local terminal to make sure that Dockerfile is correct.

	```
docker build -t hello-world-v1 .  		   //build the docker image
docker run -p 8000:8000 hello-world-v1.	   //run the image
```
2. Once the application is dockerized, we want travis to upload the docker image to AWS ECR (docker repository on Amazon). We need to set up AWS and modify the basic travis.yml file mentioned in the [Guide for AWS EC2 deployment using Travis](https://medium.com/@itsdavidthai/comprehensive-aws-ec2-deployment-with-travisci-guide-7cafa9c754fc).
3. **AWS Set-Up**: 
 * Create an Amazon ECR repository to store the docker image. To do so, you can use AWS CLI or AWS Management Console.  
  
 *  With AWS Console, select *Elastic Container Service*.
 *  Repositories --> Create Repository. (For this example, its *fma-hello-wolrd*)
 *  Take a note of the Repository URI.  
 (In this case, URI is: *451515956712.dkr.ecr.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/fma-hello-world*)
 * Add permissions to push/pull from ECR, which is used by user and our EC2 instance. Assuming that the roles and user are already created: 
 	 * First, add default AWS policy *AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryFullAcces* (allows full permissions for ECR) to the travis user.  
 	 
 	 * Add the same policy to the IAM role attached to your EC2 instance.
 	 * Now let's add these permissions to *fma-hello-wolrd* repository.
 	 
 	 * Permissions --> Add --> Search for your *Travis User* and *IAM Role* attached to EC2 instance in IAM entities and add it --> Check push/pull actions.   

4. **Travis Set-Up**:    
	 
	Update the basic travis.yml file to build the docker image and upload it to AWS ECR. The deploy configuration (for S3 and codeDeploy) remains the same as in basic travi.yml.  
	  
	The following example assumes that Repository URI is :  
	*451515956712.dkr.ecr.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/fma-hello-world* 

	```
sudo: required
language: java
services: docker
before_install:
- pip install --user awscli  # to use AWS CLI for ECR login		
- export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin
install:
- docker build -t neha-hello-world .  # build the docker image
 script:
- docker run neha-hello-world ./gradlew test. # Compile all the tests 
# To get the docker login authentication command
- $(aws ecr get-login --no-include-email --region ap-southeast-2)
# Push the docker image to ECR (notice the Repository URI)  
- docker tag neha-hello-world:latest 451515956712.dkr.ecr.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/fma-hello-world:latest
- docker push 451515956712.dkr.ecr.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/fma-hello-world:latest
# Zip the scripts to pull the image and run it on EC2 instance
- zip -r code-deploy-scripts . -i pull_image.sh run_image.sh appspec.yml
- mkdir -p dpl_cd_upload
# Upload the zipped folder to S3 bucket
- mv code-deploy-scripts.zip dpl_cd_upload/code-deploy-scripts.zip
```
The codedeploy then pick those scripts from S3 and deploy it on EC2 instance. 
5. Finally, we need to tell Travis about our AWS credentials (which you received when creating the AWS user):

	```
travis encrypt AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<YOUR-AWS-KEY> --add 
travis encrypt AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<YOUR-AWS-SECRET> --add
``` 
This command will add the encrpted AWS credentials to the travis.yml file.
5. You need to update the Appspect.yml file that is being used by CodeDeploy for all the necessary information involved in the deployment process. Essentially within the file, you will define within which directory you are deploying your files, with what permissions they are being deployed with, and which scripts you are then executing when they are deployed to the EC2 instance.  
In our example, we need to execute *pull_ image.sh* and *run_image.sh* on EC2 instance, hence it has to be configured in Appspec.yml file.

##References
1. A good blog to explain about the AWS services involved in setting up this CI/CD.  
[AWS basic services for CI/CD](https://akiraj48.github.io/aws/2018/03/23/CI-CD-Basics.html)   


 


 