---
layout: post
title:  Week 1
---

With orientation being done, we are officially in the acceleration program @MYOB. With so many different things on my plate including but not limited to reading books, getting comfortable with CLI & Git, coding challenge, brush up my java, javaScript, C#, self learning on some of the languages like React, Node.js, an awesome pool of mentors and guidance is what one could ask for.  

### GIT basics
Git is a tricky thing to get my head around, especially without the source tree (GUIs). This section is a simple walkthrough of GIT workflow using the command line to get started - covering the basic commands for making the code changes , opening a pull request, branching and merging into the master, etc.

1. Before getting started , GIT needs to be configured with user details. 

    <b> git config: </b> Get and set repository or global options 
    $ git config --global user.name 'User Name'<br/>
    $ git config --global user.email 'you@anydomain.com'<br/>
    
2. There are 2 ways to get started : create a new repository or copy an existing from somewhere else.

     <b> $ git init:</b> initialise/create a repository </br>
     <b> $ git clone <path-to-repo>: </b> copy/clone an existing repository </br>
  
  For example: <b> $ git clone git@github.com:neha29myob/String-Calculator-Kata.git </b> </br>
  It will copy the files from remote server to the local repo.

3. Make changes, track changes.

	<b>$ git status:</b> displays the repository status. It will show a list of all the files affected during work, plus 	any files added or removed since last commit. </br>
 	<b> $ git diff: </b> displays the actual changes made for all the files edited. Adding a <filename> at the end of the 	command will only show the changes for that file.

4. Add files to staging environment.

    <b> git add: </b> Add contents of the file to the staging area. </br>
    <b>$git add -A: </b> This will add modified, deleted and new files to the staging area. </br>
    <b>$git add <filepath>: </b> This adds one file specified in the path to the staging area. </br>
    <b>$git add . :</b> This will add all of the files which have been either modified or deleted to the staging area.

5. Create a commit.

    <b>$git commit -m "message about the commit": </b> Once all the desired files and folders are in the staging area, this 	command will commit the changes to the repository.
   
6. Create a branch.

     <b> git checkout -b <my branch name>: </b> It will automatically create a new branch and then move the user to that     	  branch, off of the master branch. </br>
     This comes really handy if one is worried to make changes to the main project while developing a fature. Once all the 	changes has been done, it can be merged with the master branch.
     
 7. Push a branch to GitHub. 

    <b>$git push origin branchName:</b> This will push all the changes onto the branch on GitHub. "origin" here is just a   	shorthand of remote repository's URL. 
 
[GitHub Guides](https://guides.github.com/)
    
    
    
